Cover Letter
===============
Please accept my resume for a position of Senior Software Engineer at Malwarebytes.

As a graduate student in Computational Science and Engineering, I
have studied cybersecurity relevant algorithms for most of my career. 

During my time at the Center for Computing Science (CCS) developed high performance distributed
software to study the structure of malicious programs and built a system to
identify clusters of similar malicious programs and validated the algorithms and
implementations of real-world data. My work at CCS provided valuable experience
with real world malware analysis problems.

My dissertation topic was graph analysis combining numerical, statistical, and
streaming techniques These techniques have been proven useful in cybersecurity
for analyzing many graphs that can be collected during the detection and
analysis of malware. For example, DNS graphs have been used to identify command
and control structures, Netflow data can be used to identify and characterize
the distribution of malware and the communication patterns of the compromised
machines, the association graph between programs and the computers that run them
can be used to identify novel malicious programs. These graph algorithms can be
used to add value to a malware detection system through advanced insights.

While working as a data scientist and software engineer at Ionic Security, I
worked with a microservice oriented architecture, and built a data processing
system to ingest and analyze the data access patterns of the enterprise
customers. The agile development methodology used TDD, CI/CD, and git to achieve
quick iterations and build reliable software. This system used several high
performance streaming data systems in Go. All components of this system talked
over network APIs and web standards and were deployed using Docker on cloud
computing resources. My experience at Ionic Security lead to a deeper
understanding of a professional software development team.

At the Georgia Tech Research Institute, I have worked on RESTful APIs in Python
and Go. I have moved several projects to continuous integration and container
technology by setting up and maintaining a drone-ci deployment. My current
projects revolve around analyzing data in relational databases such as
PostgreSQL. I am the technical lead of several projects supervising the
development and research activities of 7 people. At GTRI, I have
learned to build a strategic vision and a team that believes in that vision to
accomplish our common goals.


I look forward to the opportunity to interview at Malwarebytes and join a strong
team of Go developers in the cybersecurity community.

--

James Fairbanks, PhD
561-722-1041
james@jpfairbanks.net
